# Some experiences and observations w.r.t. the implementation

 * Looked at Shaun Lebron's original [parinfer-codemirror.js](https://github.com/shaunlebron/parinfer-codemirror) code and will study it more, as well as other Parinfer integrations, but decided that CodeMirror 6 is different enough that a fresh start makes sense.
 * Interesting that [`transactionFilter`](https://codemirror.net/docs/ref/#state.EditorState^transactionFilter) is the hook needed to 'add' synchronous Parinfer modifications to a user triggered state transaction. (I overlooked it at first, because filtering means something else in the contexts that I am used to.)
 * The documentation for [`transactionFilter`](https://codemirror.net/docs/ref/#state.EditorState^transactionFilter) clearly states that it is recommended to avoid accessing `Transaction.state` in a filter, but it seems unavoidable when creating a new transaction for the Parinfer changes and to apply diagnostics in case of error.
 * I had learned from [this CodeMirror discussion thread](https://discuss.codemirror.net/t/implement-parinfer-with-snippets/3549/2) that it would probably be a good idea to diff the Parinfer output with its input, if only to keep the edit history's memory usage down. I started using the [diff-match-patch](https://github.com/google/diff-match-patch) library for this, but later found CodeMirror's own [diff function](https://github.com/codemirror/merge?tab=readme-ov-file#user-content-diff) which I am now using (needs less work converting diffs and keeps the number of external dependencies down).
 * Marking Parinfer errors in such a way that they can be undone and redone proved trickier than I had expected. I got it to work with a StateField, StateEffect and invertedEffects, but perhaps I am still missing something simple and obvious.
   - Actually, I might want to rethink this approach after all. It turns out that the need for a StateEffect to keep the error displayed properly after undo and redo, makes it quite a bit
     more work to serialize and deserialize the editor's history, something that I used in [ape-cljs-playground](https://jurjanpaul.github.io/ape-cljs-playground/). To a large degree that seems the unavoidable consequence of the CodeMirror 6 approach to state, but this would not be so much of an issue if I give up the resistance to invoking Parinfer more than once for each key press: not only in the transaction filter, but also in the view update listener. Those two invocations seem wasteful, but my current hunch is that it would be fast enough with simpler code. (This does not only apply to the error state, but also the Paren Trail in case I might want to mark that after all in the future.)
 * All in all, a lot of expensive transformations need to happen for each key press... Even so, the result feels fast enough, even with a large code base on a phone.
 * I wonder if the same result may after all be achieved with less expensive steps, but I'll take (relatively) 'slow' over asynchronous postprocessing any day, having experienced how poorly that works out when an editor provides no alternative.
